do you want to get better grades so you
can one day go to school like Stanford
University well in this video I
travelled to the top universities in the
world including MIT UCLA UC Berkeley and
of course Stanford University in order
to find the most effective study tips
and I just want to warn you these tips
are not the average BS you see on
YouTube because they're very advanced
and extremely practical there's
something which I always followed learn
when you are in class do not postpone
that would be my advice
try focus and when you are in class do
your work do you review materials right
after class - yes right after right yes
that really like cuts down time so if
you just flip through the pages
immediately after class
it makes it a lot more easier when you
go back and like then via notes it makes
more sense rather than being completely
lost in spending now there fortify hours
just trying to make sense of what you
wrote down one thing that I used to do
that I haven't done in a while that
really helped was when I had a lot of
terms that I had to know I would read
out the terms that I wrote down and I
would record it on my phone and on my
walks to like class or anywhere I would
just play it and listen to it oh you
like record the term and then you record
the definition yeah yeah and then you
just repeat listen listen to it because
when I'm walking I'm not really doing
anything kind of like your own audiobook
I like that yeah and it's kind of
embarrassing to listen to your own voice
did it help it help yeah definitely
that's a good memorization trick
actually I would say talking to all of
your professors or your TAS so that way
that they know you and they know that
you're serious about the class because I
remember I had a couple classes I was
struggling in I was telling the
professor like I just need to get a B I
just need a pass so like can you work
with me and so like they were very
accommodating they told me what to do in
order to stay on top of my studies and
stuff like that talk to your professor
new TAS as soon as possible yeah go to
the office hours that's huge that's huge
you have to plan out your schedule have
to know what you're doing at every
second of the day
before in high school it's like if you
had 30 minutes you wouldn't even think
about studying you'll probably just
watching YouTube videos but then and
college don't say minutes like even just
like five pages of reading matters so
much especially when you have to read
like 200 pages a day or like two books a
week especially when you have like
breaks in between classes you need to
take advantage of those I love
flashcards it's very basic but I love
flashcards so I always like to make them
on my phone as well there's some app so
you can use and I always used like the
spaced repetition system oh I get it
I've actually tried this out before so
you basically get all the cars go over
it and then the app knows which one you
answer correctly and which ones you
don't and the ones you answer correctly
you don't get that again for like a long
time but the ones you answer incorrectly
you get that repeatedly right exactly
okay that's cool yeah that's cool habit
so having a schedule in a routine having
something where it's like okay I know I
wake up at this time every day I know I
get to the library and do this I have my
set routine and this is how it go about
it and also balancing with a healthy
lifestyle that's also part of habit
right like I know I go to the gym
everyday or I know I do this that's
really important for maintaining balance
because it's easy to get so focused on I
got a cramp cramp cramp cramp cramp and
then you're only in the library and
you're not seeing friends and everything
goes all out of whack yeah another thing
is you need to take care of yourself
everyone kind of comes in with the
stigma that cause it's gonna be so hard
and that you had to pull all-nighters
every single day but a big key in
college is like taking care of yourself
sleeping and you know even like therapy
or meditation is pray the most essential
thing as a college student because you
know college isn't really meant to be
just learning and then like staying up
all night and completing assignments
it's also you know you get the college
experience so sleeping is like the
number one drug for productivity yeah
yeah knowing when you work better like
if you work better with people around
you if you work better completely
isolated with no distractions I'm kind
of knowing and figuring out which
setting works best for you internalizing
the information that you see in the
textbook
I would not only read it but you know do
active reading I would put in post-its
and I always have like things to write
notes with always going back and forth
and really trying to understand the
information instead of memorizing which
is something that my professors are
really emphasizing this year as well
I think that really helped me understand
the information and actually find it
interesting rather than just trying to
memorize it active reading I like that
yeah I would say don't wait to the last
minute but sometimes the last minute can
create your best you know
results it really just depends on the
person I'm not a last-minute person I
get motivated when the deadlines coming
well not night before maybe like three
okay okay I'm the biggest Prakash there
in the world studied for every test
night before but I will say repetition
is key that's how I succeed always
repetition like how do you like like for
example for like calc exams a lot of my
friends wouldn't do the homework
problems over again but I do it like
three times a night before and I walk in
the test just feel completely prepared
all confident you know no like fear
about questions damn the night before
talk to older students people who taken
the class before that is huge I didn't
even do that until like junior year
where I was like hey you've taken this
class before can you like give me some
tips or how I best go about this class
because high school was kind of
standardized right it's like you know
how it works yeah teacher does this they
put it on the board the whatever's gonna
be on the board is on the test you just
write it out whatever college is so
different because professors make their
own classes and so each professor is
gonna have their own preferences their
own style their own way of doing things
and you're never gonna know unless you
ask them that's just how it is and I
have one more very effective study tip
for you whenever I review for a test
before I do anything I always create an
outline of all the things I need to
learn this will help you organize the
knowledge in your head and I'll give you
a sense of progress as you're studying
out long but when you're learning a new
subject creating this outline is really
hard so that's why I got brilliant org
to sponsor today's video brinda org is a
problem-solving website that teaches you
math science and computer science which
is really key nowadays I'm brilliant
you're not just memorizing things
instead you actively learn the concepts
by applying them to problems they break
up big concepts into bite-sized chunks
and show you the thinking process which
is essential if you want to learn faster
to better understand math science
computer science go to Bro and org slash
hafu to sign up for free plus they're
getting
you the half a university scholarship
the first 200 people to sign up using
the link in the description will get 20%
off their annual premium subscription so
what are you waiting for go check it out
my name is Southwick well click the
subscribe button and the notification
bell and I will see you in the next
video study hard